README.md, before:

# klaude: A process wrapper for Claude Code with multi-agent session management

A wrapper that spawns Claude Code as a subprocess and manages multiple agent sessions with seamless context switching. Enables delegating work to specialized agents while maintaining stateful session history.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd your-project
klaude
```

This launches Claude Code inside a wrapper. Inside Claude, you can:

```bash
klaude start orchestrator "build auth system"
klaude sessions
enter-agent <agent-id>  # switch to another agent
```

The wrapper uses marker files and process signals to handle session switching seamlessly.

## Architecture

**User runs `klaude` with no args** → Wrapper spawns Claude Code subprocess → User interacts with Claude normally, but can now spawn/manage agents

**Inside Claude**, commands like `klaude start`, `enter-agent`, etc. communicate with the wrapper via:
- `.next-session` marker files (for session switching)
- Process signals (SIGTERM to trigger switch detection)
- SQLite registry (`~/.klaude/sessions.db`) tracking all sessions

## State & Storage

~/.klaude/
  ├── sessions.db         # SQLite for session metadata
  ├── logs/
  │    ├── session-123.log
  │    ├── session-124.log
  ├── config.yaml
  ├── .active-pids.json   # Track running Claude Code processes
  ├── .next-session       # Marker file for session switching
  └── .wrapper-pid        # Wrapper process ID

## Commands

All commands work from _within_ the Claude Code process (inside the wrapper). Many are meant to be run by Claude Code itself for multi-agent orchestration.

```
klaude <command> [options]
```

Commands:
  klaude start <agent_type> <prompt> [agent_count] [options]
    Description: Delegates an agent of that type to perform the task. Agent prompt is appended with instructions on updating the parent. Streams response back to the terminal, but also saved in klaude session.
    Options:
      -c, --checkout  Checks out the agent immediately after starting, without interrupting it.
      -s, --share     Shares current context (last X messages) with the new agent.
      -d, --detach    Start without streaming back output (for daemonized agents).
    Returns: The process and session ID of the started agent.

  klaude checkout [id]
    Description: Interrupts the current agent (cli), exits it, then enters the specified agent's session without interrupting the target agent. If no ID is provided, enters parent agent, if it exists.

  klaude message <id> <prompt> [options]
    Description: Sends an asynchronous message to the specified agent.
    Options:
      -w, --wait      Blocks until the agent responds to the message (max 30 seconds)

  klaude interrupt <id>
    Description: Interrupts the specified agent's current operation.

  klaude sessions [options]
    Description: Views active klaude sessions, showing a brief description, first, and last message for each.
    Options:
      -v              Displays more detailed information for each session.

  klaude read <id> [options]
    Description: Reads the full response logs for the specified session.
    Options:
      -t, --tail      Tails the logs (tail -f style)
      -s, --summary   Summarize the session

Klaude is stateful—session data persists in SQLite after you exit. You can resume or inspect previous sessions later.

## How Session Switching Works

1. User calls `enter-agent <agent-id>` from within Claude
2. `enter-agent` writes `.next-session` marker file with target session ID
3. `enter-agent` kills the current Claude process (SIGTERM)
4. Wrapper detects the process exit and sees the marker file
5. Wrapper spawns Claude again with `--resume <agent-id>`
6. User is now in the other agent's session

This enables seamless multi-agent context switching without data loss.

## Planned Features
- Proper agent subprocess spawning (currently DB skeleton)
- Interactive wrapper loop in TypeScript
- CLI integration within Claude Code sessions
- API layer for non-interactive integrations

## Documentation

- **[ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md)** — Detailed notes on the session-switching mechanism, bash implementation, and TypeScript re-implementation requirements. Read this before implementing the wrapper in TypeScript.

Commit message:

docs: add Claude binary path configuration to README
Document how to configure the Claude Code executable path via:
- CLAUDE_BINARY environment variable
- KLAUDE_CLAUDE_BINARY environment variable
- wrapper.claudeBinary config setting in ~/.klaude/config.yaml
- Default: /opt/homebrew/bin/claude

Includes note that wrapper uses marker files and process signals
for seamless session switching.

README.md, after:

# klaude: A process wrapper for Claude Code with multi-agent session management

A wrapper that spawns Claude Code as a subprocess and manages multiple agent sessions with seamless context switching. Enables delegating work to specialized agents while maintaining stateful session history.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd your-project
klaude
```

This launches Claude Code inside a wrapper. Inside Claude, you can:

```bash
klaude start orchestrator "build auth system"
klaude sessions
enter-agent <agent-id>  # switch to another agent
```

The wrapper uses marker files and process signals to handle session switching seamlessly.

### Claude Binary Path

Set the path to the Claude Code executable with `CLAUDE_BINARY` (or `KLAUDE_CLAUDE_BINARY`). You can also persist it by editing `~/.klaude/config.yaml` and setting `wrapper.claudeBinary`. The default points to `/opt/homebrew/bin/claude`.

## Architecture

**User runs `klaude` with no args** → Wrapper spawns Claude Code subprocess → User interacts with Claude normally, but can now spawn/manage agents

**Inside Claude**, commands like `klaude start`, `enter-agent`, etc. communicate with the wrapper via:
- `.next-session` marker files (for session switching)
- Process signals (SIGTERM to trigger switch detection)
- SQLite registry (`~/.klaude/sessions.db`) tracking all sessions

## State & Storage

~/.klaude/
  ├── sessions.db         # SQLite for session metadata
  ├── logs/
  │    ├── session-123.log
  │    ├── session-124.log
  ├── config.yaml
  ├── .active-pids.json   # Track running Claude Code processes
  ├── .next-session       # Marker file for session switching
  └── .wrapper-pid        # Wrapper process ID

## Commands

All commands work from _within_ the Claude Code process (inside the wrapper). Many are meant to be run by Claude Code itself for multi-agent orchestration.

```
klaude <command> [options]
```

Commands:
  klaude start <agent_type> <prompt> [agent_count] [options]
    Description: Delegates an agent of that type to perform the task. Agent prompt is appended with instructions on updating the parent. Streams response back to the terminal, but also saved in klaude session.
    Options:
      -c, --checkout  Checks out the agent immediately after starting, without interrupting it.
      -s, --share     Shares current context (last X messages) with the new agent.
      -d, --detach    Start without streaming back output (for daemonized agents).
    Returns: The process and session ID of the started agent.

  klaude checkout [id]
    Description: Interrupts the current agent (cli), exits it, then enters the specified agent's session without interrupting the target agent. If no ID is provided, enters parent agent, if it exists.

  klaude message <id> <prompt> [options]
    Description: Sends an asynchronous message to the specified agent.
    Options:
      -w, --wait      Blocks until the agent responds to the message (max 30 seconds)

  klaude interrupt <id>
    Description: Interrupts the specified agent's current operation.

  klaude sessions [options]
    Description: Views active klaude sessions, showing a brief description, first, and last message for each.
    Options:
      -v              Displays more detailed information for each session.

  klaude read <id> [options]
    Description: Reads the full response logs for the specified session.
    Options:
      -t, --tail      Tails the logs (tail -f style)
      -s, --summary   Summarize the session

Klaude is stateful—session data persists in SQLite after you exit. You can resume or inspect previous sessions later.

## How Session Switching Works

1. User calls `enter-agent <agent-id>` from within Claude
2. `enter-agent` writes `.next-session` marker file with target session ID
3. `enter-agent` kills the current Claude process (SIGTERM)
4. Wrapper detects the process exit and sees the marker file
5. Wrapper spawns Claude again with `--resume <agent-id>`
6. User is now in the other agent's session

This enables seamless multi-agent context switching without data loss.

## Planned Features
- Proper agent subprocess spawning (currently DB skeleton)
- Interactive wrapper loop in TypeScript
- CLI integration within Claude Code sessions
- API layer for non-interactive integrations

## Documentation

- **[ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md)** — Detailed notes on the session-switching mechanism, bash implementation, and TypeScript re-implementation requirements. Read this before implementing the wrapper in TypeScript.
